---
title: "Building a Bharatiya Narrative - Where to begin?"
date: 2020-11-13 20:30:00
author: "Raunack Tripathi"
image:
  - "../../images/covers/007cover.jpg"
  - "../../images/person.png"
tags:
  - Civilization
---

_By the lamp of history, which destroyeth the darkness of ignorance, the whole mansion of nature is properly and completely illuminated_
~ Mahabharata.
<br><br>
In this series of construction a Bharatiya narrative articles, I have emphasised on why is it needed and what an average Hindu can do. I have <a href="https://le-raunack.github.io/MiscellaneousBlogs/building-a-bharatiya-narrative-what-can-be-done" class="link">discussed</a> how many institutions have been compromised to misrepresent the Dharmic faith and how one needs to start learning their true history to counter these things. Let us take a took at from where one can get this "true" history.
<br><br>
Right off the bat, one can't find "true" history for many topics. There are cotentions regarding events as late as 1930s (and probably even later) that make it difficult to make a coherent, chronological timeline of historical events. Point is, you may learn sometimes from various articles and books and they may not agree with each other. This is not always the case, but there is a good chance you may run into such problems. Such disagreements are even more apparent when a historical record is being translated from a foreign language to a more vernacular one.
<br><br>
It is also very important that one must read history without any bias. It is because of this very biased approached that our intellectuals have taken that our institutions have contempt for Bharatiya Civilization. As mentioned in the earlier article, history is gray. There are marvellous bright spots but also dark corners. The intention should not be to rewrite them or to reject them, but to accept them altogether.
<br><br>
Now, with those disclaimers out of the way, let's get into the actual topic. Learning history, such a daunting task won't be served on a silver platter. If anything, it's more of a domino effect. You find something, then you find another thing relating to the thing you learned earlier. Same is the case for historians as well. You find one historian, then they may quote other historians. The domino effect as already begun with you reading this article.
<br><br>
Without any hesitation, <a href="https://twitter.com/TIinExile" class="link">TrueIndology</a> is THE repository for history regarding _many_ things. Don't let his name fool you, he specializes in histories of **many** civilizations and countries. He openly challenges fake historians and proves them wrong. It is better to not fight TrueIndology and make a fool out of yourself. We have knocked down many dominos beginning with mentioning TI. But TrueIndology is only an individual and is continously under attack. He has even had his twitter account disabled for quoting verses from the Holy Quran. Another great historian who has immense knowledge and continoulsy takes on more civilizational issues is <a href="https://twitter.com/Koenraad_Elst" class="link">Dr. Koenraad Elst</a>. He not only makes sharp tweets, has written books, but has also collaborated with organizations like Upword and Sangam Talks.
<br><br>
Ah yes, yes, we are stepping up from individuals to organizations. <a href="https://twitter.com/upword_" class="link">Upword</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/sangamtalks" class="link">Sangam Talks</a> (or Srijan Foundation) have provided **many** historians, linguists, writes, authors, archaeologists and other people who have immense knowledge to share with the world regarding Dharma and Dharmic civilization a platform. Their videos are very detailed, comprehensive and simple so that even a beginner can understand their presentations on various topics. Once you begin watching their videos and reading their (the individuals involved in giving these presentations) works, you will have a very good idea about where Dharma and Dharmic civilization lies when you compare it to its contemporaries in the past and present. You also have other journal-based platforms like <a href="https://pragyata.com/" class="link">Pragyata</a>, which was co-founded by <a href="https://twitter.com/Infinitchy" class="link">Ashish Dhar</a> and <a href="https://www.dharmadispatch.in/" class="link">Dharma Dispatch</a>, founded by <a href="https://twitter.com/dharmadispatch" class="link">Sandeep Balakrishna</a>, who also has written many books.
<br><br>
The many works of Ram Chandra Majumdar Ji, Shri Aurobindo, <a href="https://www.amazon.in/Rewriting-Indian-History-Francois-Gautier/dp/8187943270/ref=sr_1_3?crid=3PGR0IZJA3JYI&dchild=1&keywords=rewriting+indian+history&qid=1605194390&sprefix=rewritting+indi%2Caps%2C316&sr=8-3" class="link">Rewriting Indian History by Francois Gautier Ji</a>, works of Rajeev Malhotra Ji are a very good place to start. As you watch and read their works, you will continue with the domino effect and come to know about more historians who present the real Indian history and also about the historians who place their Marxist theory above truth.
<br><br>
This article would be **incomplete** without mentioning the corpus of Dharmic literature that we are blessed with. The Vedas, the Puranas and obviously, the Itihasa texts of Ramayana and Mahabharata cannot be recommended enough for one to read. Yes, they are considered mythological but by people who haven't read them or who have some other agenda of their own. From the Vedas to Mahabharata, you see how the Bharatiya civilization was flourishing when many others were only rising. You see many geographical changes and Dharmic ethics evolving over time. Uncontested in their stories, their teachings and their philosophies, these epics and compositions are a reminder that Bharatavarsha and her people were foremost among their contemporaries in thought and action. An average Hindu can't understand Sanskrit or maybe even read their mother tongue, in which the epics are even more delightful, so one can opt for English translations. Kisari Mohan Ganguli, Manmatha Dutt, Bibek Debroy etc., are good translators so take your pick.
