---
title: "Review of A Well of Ascension by Brandon Sanderson"
date: 2021-02-18 20:30:00
author: "Shubham Gupta"
image:
  - "../../images/covers/016cover.jpg"
  - "../../images/noimage_person.png"
tags:
  - Book
  - Reviews
---


In my <a href="https://le-raunack.github.io/MiscellaneousBlogs/a-review-of-the-final-empire-mistborn-1" class="link">review of “The Final Empire”</a> I said how I found the book to be underwhelming. I said how the characters felt lacking and many of the events seemed pointless. Oh, poor ol’ me from 2020, if only you knew what Mistborn had in store for you…
I hoped the second book would change my opinion on the series. It not only did exactly that but also made me rethink the events of The Final Empire and suddenly a lot of things got re-contextualized. The Dark Lord’s reign and Kelsier’s plan to take him down, the history of the “Hero of Ages”, the entire premise of Mistborn and the way Sanderson pitches the series on his Youtube channel, all of it a ruse to distract the reader from the real on-goings of this world. And it's a ruse that does its job well. 
The Well of Ascension is a book that, at first, seems to do everything better than the first book. A much better plotline, the characters being way more likeable, better exploration of the world and a much more satisfying climax. And then Sanderson plays the Reverse Uno card and turns all of the reader’s expectations on their head, leaving them dumbstruck at the revelation that brings with it massive consequences.
<br><br>
But I am getting ahead of myself… Here are my thoughts on the second book in Brandon Sanderson’s Mistborn trilogy:
So, as I mentioned before, the plot of this book immediately had my attention. A year has gone by since the fall of the Lord Ruler, but apparently things are not as smooth as the rebels expected them to be. What with the army of the current ruler’s father stationed right outside Luthadel’s wall and Vin dealing with not only enemy assassins, but also a strange rival Mistborn prowling about the city, mysterious mist people who appear only to her and the constant thumping noise she hears in the distance whenever she uses her Allomancy. Oh, and Sazed is far away investigating cases about the mist murdering people. Yeah, suddenly a lot is happening…
<br><br>
“Revolution is the easy part” as is often said and sure enough, this book deals with the consequences of the fall of the Lord Ruler and the characters trying to maintain the freedom they dreamed of. Where the first book was about taking down a tyrannical dark ruler, Well of Ascension is much more political in nature. Elend, the new ruler, struggles to maintain democracy in this Post-Dark Lord world while also having to deal with opposing forces who desire to occupy the Lord Ruler’s now vacant Throne of Tyranny. The said forces include both outsider armies threatening to invade the capital and insiders who have their own plans about Luthadel’s administration.~
<br><br>
A significant portion of the book is dedicated towards the political intrigue surrounding the current situation. An invasion is inevitable and the question is whether to fight the armies head on or to give up the city to one of the invading kings in order to minimize the damage. In either case, it won’t end well for the newly freed people of the Final Empire. Sanderson does a wonderful job into plotting these precarious circumstances and keeps the reader on edge throughout the book’s length. Elend has to learn to be a King pretty much from scratch in order to have any chance at success, but he has help as an unfamiliar face shows up to whip some sense into the boy. The Kelsier crew from the previous book were much more intriguing in this one as they now hold important positions in Elend’s government and they must all work together to figure out a solution to the many threats they now face.
<br><br>
“That is fine and all Mr. Reviewer. But I thought I was reading a fantasy book, what about Allomancy and the fantastical battles?” I hear you ask. Fear not, there is plenty of that too. Vin continues to develop her allomantic abilities as she protects the city under the cover of mists accompanied with her Shape-shifting dog sidekick. She discovers a new alloy which brings new applications to her pre-existing techniques as she fights off various Allomancers sent to kill her and grows a strange rivalry with another Mistborn named Zane. There are many battles for the readers to enjoy and even more interesting showcases of the Allomancy system.
<br><br>
Yet, something strange is afoot. The mists seem to be acting strangely after the Lord Ruler’s death and Vin still has no answers to the mysterious circumstances of her victory against the dark lord. It seems there was something deeper behind the tyrannical rule that was in place in the world for over a thousand years. Along with Sazed, she starts looking into the true history of the world in the hopes of uncovering the many mysteries. Perhaps the armies aren’t the biggest problem the characters are facing. Perhaps it’s something that threatens the world as a whole. Maybe, just maybe, Vin is the one supposed to be the “Hero of Ages”?
<br><br>
The characters are significantly more enjoyable in the second Mistborn book. I found myself caring for characters I thought very little of during my reading of the first book. I remember not caring if the members of Kelsier’s crew (Clubs, Spook, Breeze, among others) died a gruesome death during their rebellion. That wasn’t the case in this one. We spend a good amount of time with each of these individuals, getting to know them and hearing out their opinions on the situation at hand. 
Breeze was particularly a surprise. Being a “Soother” - someone who can suppress certain emotions in order to encourage more desirable ones (for example, suppressing a soldier’s fear so his courage may come forth) - we see how his mind really works as he goes about doing his thing. We understand his mindset as he “controls” how other people feel and realize the misconceptions people have about him. He has his own little character arc in the book and I am excited to see where it goes in the final book.
<br><br>
Elend Venture, the one who took the throne after Lord Ruler’s fall, is a nice spin on the “Aragorn-esque Lawful King” character trope. He knows a great deal about political theory and thinks of the good of his people. He establishes an Assembly and creates law in the hopes that the society would uplift. He goes as far as to put certain provisions in place so an unreliable ruler could be removed from the throne. But goodwill alone doesn’t make a King desirable, he learns this the hard way. But he goes forth anyway trying his best to do the right thing, while also learning to be a good ruler under the tutelage of Tindwyl.
Vin is an interesting case. She goes through many personal conflicts; her identity in the Post-Dark Lord, the nature of her relationship with Elend, the fact that everything she knows about the world might not be true. We finally see some slow but visible growth in her character as the story progresses. This may sound oxymoronic - but the Mary Sue nature of her character might actually come at a terrible price.
<br><br>
Even though the first book didn’t work for me at time, that may have added to my enjoyment of the second one. Strangely enough, I suspect that was an intentional design decision on Sanderson’s part. Or maybe I am thinking too much? Who knows! Point is, Well of Ascension was a great reading experience which got me all hyped up for the final installment. Even though I am yet to start The Hero of Ages, I think I am beginning to understand why this series is regarded so highly. 
My final thoughts would wait until I finish the series. Until then I would happily recommend both this book and the previous one to anyone looking for fulfilling their Fantasy fix.
